Ready.
Scratch my head, Peaseblossom.
Come, sit thee down upon thisflowery bed
while I thy amiable cheeks docoy
and stick musk-roses in thysleek, smooth head
and kiss thy fair, large ears,my gentle joy.
Where's Mounsieur Cobweb?
Ready.
Mounsieur Cobweb, goodmounsieur,
get you your weapons in yourhand
and kill me a red-hippedhumble-bee
on the top of a thistle.
And, good mounsieur, bring methe honey-bag.
Don't fret yourself too much inthe action, mounsieur.
And, good mounsieur, have a carethe honey-bag break not.
I would be loath to have youoverflown
with a honey-bag, signior.
Where's Mounsieur Mustardseed?
Ready.
Give me your neaf, MounsieurMustardseed.
Pray you, leave your courtesy,good mounsieur.
What's your Will?
Nothing, good mounsieur, but tohelp Cavalery Cobweb to scratch.
I must to the barber's,monsieur,
for methinks I am marvelloushairy about the face.
And I am such a tender ass,
if my hair do but tickle me, Imust scratch.
What, wilt thou hear some music,my sweet love?
I have a reasonable good ear inmusic.
Let's have the tongs and thebones.
Or say, sweet love, what thoudesirest to eat.
Truly, a peck of provender.
I could munch your good dryoats.
Methinks I have a great desireto a bottle of hay.
Good hay, sweet hay, hath nofellow.
I have a venturous fairy
that shall seek the squirrel'shoard and fetch thee new nuts.
I had rather have a handful ortwo of dried peas.
But let none of your people stirme.
I have an exposition of sleepcome upon me.
Sleep thou, and I will wind theein my arms.
Fairies, away, and be all waysaway.
So doth the woodbine the sweethoneysuckle gently entwist.
The female ivy so enrings thebarky fingers of the elm.
Oh, how I love thee.
Oh, how I dote on thee.
See'st thou this sweet sight?
Her dotage now I do begin topity.
For, meeting her of late behindthe wood
seeking sweet favours for thishateful fool,
I did upbraid her and fall outwith her.
For she his hairy temples
then had rounded with a coronetof fresh and fragrant flowers.
And that same dew, whichsometime on the buds
was wont to swell like round andorient pearls
stood now within the prettyflowerets' eyes
like tears that did their owndisgrace bewail.
When I had at my pleasuretaunted her
and she in mild terms begged mypatience,
I then did ask of her herchangeling child,
which straight she gave me.
And her fairy sent to bear himto my bower in fairy land.
And now I have the boy,
I will undo this hatefulimperfection of her eyes.
And, gentle Puck, take thistransformed scalp
from off the head of thisAthenian swain.
That, he awaking when the otherdo,
may all to Athens back againrepair
and think no more of thisnight's accidents
but as the fierce vexation of adream.
But first, I will release thefairy queen.
Be as thou wast wont to be.
See as thou wast wont to see.
Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower
hath such force and blessedpower.
Now, my Titania,
wake you, my sweet queen.
My Oberon.
What visions have I seen.
Methought I was enamoured of anass.
There lies your love.
How came these things to pass?
Oh, how mine eyes do loathe hisvisage now.
Silence awhile.
Robin, take off this head.
Titania, music call.
Music, music, such as charmethsleep.
Now, when thou wakest, withthine own fool's eyes peep.
Sound, music.
Come, my queen, take hands withme
and rock the ground whereonthese sleepers be.
Now thou and I are new in amity,
and will to-morrow midnightsolemnly dance
in Duke Theseus' housetriumphantly
and bless it to all fairprosperity.
There shall the pairs offaithful lovers be wedded
with Theseus all in jollity.
Fairy king, attend, and mark.
I do hear the morning lark.
Then, my queen, in silence sad,
trip we after night's shade.
We the globe can compass soonswifter than the wandering moon.
Come, my lord, and in ourflight,
tell me how it came this nightthat I sleeping here was found
with these mortals on theground.
I was with Hercules and Cadmusonce,
when in a wood of Crete,
they bayed the bear with houndsof Sparta.
Never did I hear such gallantchiding.
For besides the groves, theskies, the fountains,
every region near seemed all onemutual cry.
I never heard so musical adiscord, such sweet thunder.
Good morrow, friends.
Saint Valentine is passed.
Begin these wood-birds but tocouple now?
But speak, Egeus,
is this not the day
that Hermia should give answerof her choice.
It is, my Lord.
I pray, all, stand up.
I know you two are rivalenemies.
How comes this gentle concord inthe world,
that hatred is so far fromjealousy
to sleep by hate and fear noenmity?
My lord, I shall reply amazedly,half sleep, half waking,
but as yet, I swear, I cannottruly say how I came here.
But, as I think--
for truly would I speak, and nowdo I bethink me, so it is--
I came hither with Hermia.
Our intent was to be gone fromAthens,
where we might, without theperil of the Athenian law--
Enough, enough, my lord.
You have enough.
I beg the law, the law upon hishead.
They would have stolen away.
They would, Demetrius,
thereby to have defeated you andme,
you of your wife, and me of myconsent,
of my consent that she should beyour wife.
My lord, fair Helen told me oftheir stealth,
of this their purpose hither tothis wood.
And I, in fury, hither followedthem,
fair Helena, in fancy, followingme.
But, my good lord, I wot not bywhat power--
but by some power it is--
my love to Hermia, melted as thesnow,
seems to me now as theremembrance of an idle gaud
which in my childhood I did doteupon.
All the faith, the virtue of myheart,
the object and the pleasure ofmine eye is only Helena.
To her, my lord, was I betrothedere I saw Hermia.
But, like in sickness, did Iloathe this food.
But, as in health, come to mynatural taste.
Now I do wish it, love it, longfor it,
and will, for evermore, be trueto it.
Egeus, I will overbear yourwill.
For in the temple by and by withus
these couples shall eternally beknit.
These things seem small andindistinguishable,
like far off mountains turnedinto clouds.
Methinks I see these things withparted eye
when everything seems double.
So methinks, and I have foundDemetrius like a jewel,
mine own, and not mine own.
Are you sure that we are awake?
It seems to me that yet wesleep, we dream.
Do not you think The duke washere, and bid us follow him?
Yea, and my father.
And Hippolyta.
And he bid us follow to thetemple.
Why, then, we are awake.
Let's follow him and by the waylet us recount our dream.
When my cue comes, call me, andI will answer.
My next is, "Most fair Pyramus."
Heigh-ho, Peter Quince.
Flute, the bellows-mender.
Snout, the tinker.
Starveling.
God's my life, stolen hence, andleft me asleep.
I have had a most rare vision.
I have had a dream, past the witof man to say what dream it was.
Man is but an ass if he go aboutto expound this dream.
Methought I was-- there is noman can tell what.
Methought I was-- and methoughtI had--
but man is but a patched fool,
if he will offer to say whatmethought I had.
The eye of man hath not heard.
The ear of man hath not seen.
Man's hand is not able to taste,his tongue to conceive,
nor his heart to report what mydream was.
I will get Peter Quince to writea ballad of this dream.
It shall be called Bottom'sDream,
because it hath no bottom.
And I will sing it in the latterend of a play
before the duke.
Peradventure, to make it themore gracious,
I shall sing it at her death.
'Tis strange my Theseus, thatthese lovers speak of.
More strange than true.
I never may believe theseantique fables,
nor these fairy toys.
Lovers and madmen have suchseething brains,
such shaping fantasies
that apprehend more than coolreason ever comprehends.
The lunatic, the lover, and thepoet
are of imagination all compact.
One sees more devils than vasthell can hold.
That is the madman.
The lover, all as frantic,
sees Helen's beauty in a brow ofEgypt.
The poet's eye, in a fine frenzyrolling
doth glance from heaven toearth, from earth to heaven
and as imagination bodies forththe forms of things unknown.
The poet's pen turns them toshapes
and gives to airy nothing alocal habitation and a name.
Such tricks hath strongimagination
that if it would but apprehendsome joy,
it comprehends some bringer ofthat joy.
Or in the night, imagining somefear,
how easy is a bush supposed abear.
But all the story of the nighttold over,
and all their minds transfiguredso together,
more witnesseth than fancy'simages
and grows to something of greatconstancy,
but, howsoever, strange andadmirable.
Have you sent to Bottom's house?
Is he come home yet?
He cannot be heard of.
Out of doubt, he is transported.
If he come not, then the play ismarred.
It goes not forward, doth it?
It is not possible.
You have not a man in all Athens
able to discharge Pyramus buthe.
No, he hath simply the best witof any handicraft man in Athens.
Yea.
And the best person too.
And he is a very paramour for asweet voice.
You must say "paragon."
A paramour is, God bless us, athing of naught.
Masters, the duke is coming fromthe temple,
and there is two or three lordsand ladies more married.
If our sport had gone forward,we had all been made men.
Oh, sweet bully Bottom.
Thus hath he lost sixpence a dayduring his life.
He could not have 'scapedsixpence a day.
An the duke had not given himsixpence a day
for playing Pyramus, I'll behanged.
He would have deserved it.
Sixpence a day in Pyramus ornothing.
Where are these lads?
Where are these hearts?
Bottom?
Bottom!
Oh, most courageous day.
Oh, most happy hour.
Masters, I am to discoursewonders,
but ask me not what, for if Itell you, I am no true Athenian.
I will tell you every thing,right as it fell out.
Let us hear, sweet Bottom.
Not a word of me.
All that I will tell you is thatthe duke hath dined.
Get your apparel together, goodstrings to your beards,
new ribbons to your pumps.
Meet presently at the palace.
Every man look o'er his part.
For the short and the long is,
our play is preferred!
In any case, let Thisbe haveclean linen,
and let not him that plays thelion pair his nails,
for they shall hang out for thelion's claws.
And, most dear actors, eat noonions nor garlic,
for we are to utter sweetbreath,
and I do not doubt but to hearthem say
it is a sweet comedy.
No more words: away!
Go, away.